## 27.04.20: Reflection about the article "IJQwerty: What Difference Does One Key Change Make? Gesture Typing Keyboard Optimization Bounded by One Key Position Change from Qwerty".

> Referenced paper: Xiaojun Bi and Shumin Zhai. 2016. IJQwerty: What Difference Does One Key Change Make? Gesture Typing Keyboard Optimization Bounded by One Key Position Change from Qwerty. In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI ’16). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 49–58. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/2858036.2858421

Qwerty keyboard layout was created to help people write faster by distributing keys for a two-hand typing and to minimize jamming in mechanical typewriters by placing common digraphs (consecutive letter pairs) on opposite sides of the keyboard. Nowadays, with cell phones and personal computers, keyboard layout needs are different. For example, a computer keyboard don't jam as typewriters and a smartphone keyboard usually is used with a single hand. Despite needs are changed, Qwerty continue beeing the most used layout in the world and the reason is that even the most optimized keyboards, faster and with a lower error rate than Qwerty, are rejected due to the difficulty of adapting to a different layout.

It's curious how something created many years ago, with a different porpouse of current needs, is obliged to still beeing apply to new technologies due to the inability to adopt a new and better system that would improve people's lives. This is an example of how human nature stands in the way of conventional design methodologies and we realize that HCI is very useful.

Many times we ignore the origin of everyday things and we limit ourselves to what has already been established, but learn their origin helps us to understand why they were created and, therefore, make better use of them. To be honest, before I read this article, I had never asked myself why the layout of my keyboard is this way.