## 28.03.20: Reflection about the article "Modularity is the Key A New Approach to Social Media Privacy Policies".

> Referenced paper: Sanchari Das, Jayati Dev, and Kaushik Srinivasan. 2018. Modularity is the Key A New Approach to Social Media Privacy Policies. In Proceedings of the 7th Mexican Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (MexIHC ’18). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, Article 13, 1–4. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/3293578.3293589
  
In this paper, a Modular Privacy Policy Model (MPPM) is proposed. This model will help social media users to opt-in for partial data collection based on the services they use and selectively reject other services data collection policies within a platform. This provides the user with an opportunity to take control of their privacy by selectively agreeing to only sections of the privacy policy, for services they want.

Based on user-centered design methodology, the writers define a process to implement their model into Facebook's privacy policies. The process is better defined in the paper, but the usability test was censored due to ethical concerns. That makes me doubt about the veracity of their conclusions, because they affirm that the model works, but there is no evidence.

I think it's a very interesting proposal, but it seems difficult to implement in a privacy policy document as big as Facebook or other leading social media. I think the model could give better results if it's used to inform users about privacy policies of new services or features, because even though Facebook modularize all their policies, it will continue to be difficult to read because of the size and, surely, people will continue without reading them. On the other hand, the model isn't just enhance privacy policies readability, but also, help social media users to take control of their privacy by accepting only the secction of the policy that correspond with the services they want. This could be very useful, because nowadays you can only accept or don't the whole privacy policy and if you are not agree with a single part, you can't use the whole app.