## 15.05.20: Reflection about the article "Six Styles for Usability Requirements".

> Referenced paper: Lauesen, Soren & Younessi, Houman. (1998). Six Styles for Usability Requirements.. 155-166. URL: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/221552276_Six_Styles_for_Usability_Requirements 

The article mention that usability requirements must be tangible so that we are able to verify them and trace them during the development. They must also be complete so that if we fulfill them, we are sure that we get the usability we intend. Meeting these goals is difficult in practice and no approach seems to cover all of them. Authors analyze the strenghts and weaknesses of six different usability styles.

Taking into account my null experience writing usability requirements, I can say that I found this guide very useful. The main reason, and it's something I always appreciate when I am learning something new, are the examples. It may seem very simple but even the same article says, <em>"...literature has very little to say about usability requirements and rarely provides real-life examples".</em> The second reason, which for me adds a lot of value to this article, are the sections into which it's divided. Not only describes in a general way the approach of each style, also gives you tools that help you in develpment and testing phases. Due to the complexity of detecting this type of requirements, for each style, the authors provide a section in which they explain what data you need to take into account when writing the usability requirements and how you could obtain them. They also explain how each usability requirements style can be traced during development and verified in usability tests, which is very useful for the purpose of my IHC course, because after defining the requirements of usability we must perform the usability tests based on those requirements. The last section describes the pros and cons of each requirements style, this is very helpful to determine which style best suits the system you will develop.

For example, for the system that we are designing in the IHC course, my team and I decided that the Performance and Subjective styles are the ones that best adapt to our needs since they are easy to identify in the system and verify in the usability tests. I want to clarify that we didn't choose the easiest ones because of laziness, but because of our lack of experience, which makes it difficult for us to implement the other styles and the delivery deadline doesn't allow us to spend a lot of time researching.