## 12.05.20: A model for in-situ augmented reality content creation based on storytelling and gamification.

> Referenced paper: Fernando Vera and J. Alfredo Sánchez. 2016. A model for in-situ augmented reality content creation based on storytelling and gamification. In Proceedings of the 6th Mexican Conference on Human-Computer Interaction (MexIHC’16). Association for Computing Machinery, New York, NY, USA, 39–42. DOI:https://doi.org/10.1145/2967175.2967385

This project is about a simpler way to create interactive material using AR technology, through an application you can create a story using AR, where the place where you are is the setting for this story and you as a user can create (or import from other media) 3D material to recreate scenes that will happen while telling a story. The objective of this application is to open the world of AR to people not specialized in the technological area (or specifically in AR) so that anyone with enough technical skill to manage this application can create content, view it and share it with their contacts. In addition, when another user is in the same place where a story has been created using this application, they can play it.

I think that the application can be widely used by teachers of any level to be able to create content related to the subjects it teaches, creating new ways of learning for students and involving them in technology. Also, this technique could be used very strongly in museums or historical centers to teach past events and thus strengthen tourism in the cities where these forms of storytelling are most implemented. Finally, I think that in some places like malls or parks they could implement it solely for entertainment and marketing for these places.
