## 19.01.20: Review of "Design considerations to support therapy for children with learning and language disabilities"

> Paper referenced: MexIHC'16: Proceedings of the 6th Mexican Conference on Human-Computer Interaction. September 2016. Pages 5–8. <https://doi.org/10.1145/2967175.2967382>

To frame the subject into context, *Design considerations to support therapy for children with learning and language disabilities*, by Cornejo R. and colleagues, is a research article partially funded by CONACYT and published as part of [MexIHC'16](http://mexihc.org/2016/index.html)'s conference proceedings. The mission of the research is to propose **design considerations** for the development of technological systems that would indeed aid therapy for children with learning and language disabilities.

Considering the mission of the research, two routes could have been taken from the start: (1) research the viability of new ways of therapy that would only be possible on the basis of specialized technology or (2) identify how current therapies could be enhanced by means of technology. The approach taken is the latter, seeking for technology not to innovate the field, but to better what is already being done.

What is already being done in the field? Several studies have reported a strong correlation between motor and cognitive skills, assumption on top of which movement-based learning (MBL) sits. This realm of therapy aims at improving academic achievement by practicing physical, yet natural activities. The research focuses on how technological systems can add more value to MBL therapy.

The paper sustains correlation with the HCI field insofar as it researches design considerations for the development of technology that allows for the monitoring of human being gestures. Vision-based technologies are opted for the tracking, evading obtrusive gear such as special clothes. Viability is eased by merely proposing the tracking of gross gestures, in opposition to fine movements. Herein I think the scope of the research is limited by the current state of vision-based technologies, only able to aid in the quality of *some* aspects of the therapy. Nonetheless, the research was aimed not at delivering a product, but researching how potential products could be developed. By this stance, I find it somewhat odd that design is limited by current technological state.
